<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section data-parent="the-play" id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h3>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h3>
			<p>Again in the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbeys’</b> dining room. Afternoon. The table is not laid: it is draped in its ordinary cloth, with pen and ink, an exercise book, and schoolbooks on it. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby Gilbey</b> is in the armchair, crouching over the fire, reading an illustrated paper. He is a pretty youth, of very suburban gentility, strong and manly enough by nature, but untrained and unsatisfactory, his parents having imagined that domestic restriction is what they call “bringing up.” He has learnt nothing from it except a habit of evading it by deceit.</p>
			<p>He gets up to ring the bell; then resumes his crouch. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> answers the bell.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Juggins.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Sir?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Morosely sarcastic.</i> Sir be blowed!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Cheerfully.</i> Not at all, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I’m a gaol-bird: you’re a respectable man.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>That doesn’t matter, sir. Your father pays me to call you sir; and as I take the money, I keep my part of the bargain.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Would you call me sir if you weren’t paid to do it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>No, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I’ve been talking to Dora about you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Indeed, sir?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Yes. Dora says your name can’t be Juggins, and that you have the manners of a gentleman. I always thought you hadn’t any manners. Anyhow, your manners are different from the manners of a gentleman in my set.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>They would be, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>You don’t feel disposed to be communicative on the subject of Dora’s notion, I suppose.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>No, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing his paper on the floor and lifting his knees over the arm of the chair so as to turn towards the footman.</i> It was part of your bargain that you were to valet me a bit, wasn’t it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Well, can you tell me the proper way to get out of an engagement to a girl without getting into a row for breach of promise or behaving like a regular cad?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>No, sir. You can’t get out of an engagement without behaving like a cad if the lady wishes to hold you to it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>But it wouldn’t be for her happiness to marry me when I don’t really care for her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Women don’t always marry for happiness, sir. They often marry because they wish to be married women and not old maids.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Then what am I to do?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Marry her, sir, or behave like a cad.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Jumping up.</i> Well, I won’t marry her: that’s flat. What would you do if you were in my place?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I should tell the young lady that I found I couldn’t fulfil my engagement.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>But you’d have to make some excuse, you know. I want to give it a gentlemanly turn: to say I’m not worthy of her, or something like that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>That is not a gentlemanly turn, sir. Quite the contrary.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I don’t see that at all. Do you mean that it’s not exactly true?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Not at all, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I can say that no other girl can ever be to me what she’s been. That would be quite true, because our circumstances have been rather exceptional; and she’ll imagine I mean I’m fonder of her than I can ever be of anyone else. You see, Juggins, a gentleman has to think of a girl’s feelings.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>If you wish to spare her feelings, sir, you can marry her. If you hurt her feelings by refusing, you had better not try to get credit for considerateness at the same time by pretending to spare them. She won’t like it. And it will start an argument, of which you will get the worse.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>But, you know, I’m not really worthy of her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Probably she never supposed you were, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Oh, I say, Juggins, you are a pessimist.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Preparing to go.</i> Anything else, sir?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Querulously.</i> You haven’t been much use. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He wanders disconsolately across the room.</i> You generally put me up to the correct way of doing things.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I assure you, sir, theres no correct way of jilting. It’s not correct in itself.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hopefully.</i> I’ll tell you what. I’ll say I can’t hold her to an engagement with a man whos been in quod. that’ll do it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He seats himself on the table, relieved and confident.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Very dangerous, sir. No woman will deny herself the romantic luxury of self-sacrifice and forgiveness when they take the form of doing something agreeable. She’s almost sure to say that your misfortune will draw her closer to you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>What a nuisance! I don’t know what to do. You know, Juggins, your cool simple-minded way of doing it wouldn’t go down in Denmark Hill.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I daresay not, sir. No doubt you’d prefer to make it look like an act of self-sacrifice for her sake on your part, or provoke her to break the engagement herself. Both plans have been tried repeatedly, but never with success, as far as my knowledge goes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>You have a devilish cool way of laying down the law. You know, in my class you have to wrap up things a bit. Denmark Hill isn’t Camberwell, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I have noticed, sir, that Denmark Hill thinks that the higher you go in the social scale, the less sincerity is allowed; and that only tramps and riffraff are quite sincere. That’s a mistake. Tramps are often shameless; but they’re never sincere. Swells⁠—if I may use that convenient name for the upper classes⁠—play much more with their cards on the table. If you tell the young lady that you want to jilt her, and she calls you a pig, the tone of the transaction may leave much to be desired; but it’ll be less Camberwellian than if you say you’re not worthy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Oh, I can’t make you understand, Juggins. The girl isn’t a scullery-maid. I want to do it delicately.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>A mistake, sir, believe me, if you are not a born artist in that line.⁠—Beg pardon, sir, I think I heard the bell. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>, much perplexed, shoves his hands into his pockets, and comes off the table, staring disconsolately straight before him; then goes reluctantly to his books, and sits down to write. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> returns.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Announcing.</i> Miss Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b> comes in. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> withdraws.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Still grinding away for that Society of Arts examination, Bobby? You’ll never pass.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> No: I was just writing to you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>What about?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Oh, nothing. At least⁠—How are you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Passing round the other end of the table and putting down on it a copy of Lloyd’s Weekly and her purse-bag.</i> Quite well, thank you. How did you enjoy Brighton?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Brighton! I wasn’t at⁠—Oh yes, of course. Oh, pretty well. Is your aunt all right?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>My aunt! I suppose so. I haven’t seen her for a month.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I thought you were down staying with her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh! was that what they told you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Yes. Why? Weren’t you really?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>No. I’ve something to tell you. Sit down and lets be comfortable.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She sits on the edge of the table. He sits beside her, and puts his arm wearily round her waist.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You needn’t do that if you don’t like, Bobby. Suppose we get off duty for the day, just to see what it’s like.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Off duty? What do you mean?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You know very well what I mean. Bobby: did you ever care one little scrap for me in that sort of way? Don’t funk answering: <em>I</em> don’t care a bit for you⁠—that way.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Removing his arm rather huffily.</i> I beg your pardon, I’m sure. I thought you did.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Well, did you? Come! Don’t be mean. I’ve owned up. You can put it all on me if you like; but I don’t believe you care any more than I do.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>You mean we’ve been shoved into it rather by the pars and mars.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Yes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Well, it’s not that I don’t care for you: in fact, no girl can ever be to me exactly what you are; but we’ve been brought up so much together that it feels more like brother and sister than⁠—well, than the other thing, doesn’t it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Just so. How did you find out the difference?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Blushing.</i> Oh, I say!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I found out from a Frenchman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Oh, I say! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He comes off the table in his consternation.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Did you learn it from a Frenchwoman? You know you must have learnt it from somebody.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Not a Frenchwoman. She’s quite a nice woman. But she’s been rather unfortunate. The daughter of a clergyman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Startled.</i> Oh, Bobby! That sort of woman!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>What sort of woman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You don’t believe she’s really a clergyman’s daughter, do you, you silly boy? It’s a stock joke.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Do you mean to say you don’t believe me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>No: I mean to say I don’t believe her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">curious and interested, resuming his seat on the table beside her.</i> What do you know about her? What do you know about all this sort of thing?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>What sort of thing, Bobby?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Well, about life.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I’ve lived a lot since I saw you last. I wasn’t at my aunt’s. All that time that you were in Brighton, I mean.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I wasn’t at Brighton, Meg. I’d better tell you: you’re bound to find out sooner or later. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He begins his confession humbly, avoiding her gaze.</i> Meg: it’s rather awful: you’ll think me no end of a beast. I’ve been in prison.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Yes, me. For being drunk and assaulting the police.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Do you mean to say that you⁠—oh! this is a letdown for me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She comes off the table and drops, disconsolate, into a chair at the end of it furthest from the hearth.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Of course I couldn’t hold you to our engagement after that. I was writing to you to break it off. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He also descends from the table and makes slowly for the hearth.</i> You must think me an utter rotter.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh, has everybody been in prison for being drunk and assaulting the police? How long were you in?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>A fortnight.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>That’s what I was in for.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>What are you talking about? In where?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>In quod.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>But I’m serious: I’m not rotting. Really and truly⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>What did you do to the copper?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Nothing, absolutely nothing. He exaggerated grossly. I only laughed at him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Jumping up, triumphant.</i> I’ve beaten you hollow. I knocked out two of his teeth. I’ve got one of them. He sold it to me for ten shillings.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Now please do stop fooling, Meg. I tell you I’m not rotting. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits down in the armchair, rather sulkily.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking up the copy of Lloyd’s Weekly and going to him.</i> And I tell you I’m not either. Look! Heres a report of it. The daily papers are no good; but the Sunday papers are splendid. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She sits on the arm of the chair.</i> See! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reading</i>: “Hardened at Eighteen. A quietly dressed, respectable-looking girl who refuses her name”⁠—that’s me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pausing a moment in his perusal.</i> Do you mean to say that you went on the loose out of pure devilment?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I did no harm. I went to see a lovely dance. I picked up a nice man and went to have a dance myself. I can’t imagine anything more innocent and more happy. All the bad part was done by other people: they did it out of pure devilment if you like. Anyhow, here we are, two gaolbirds, Bobby, disgraced forever. Isn’t it a relief?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising stiffly.</i> But you know, it’s not the same for a girl. A man may do things a woman mayn’t. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He stands on the hearthrug with his back to the fire.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Are you scandalized, Bobby?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Well, you can’t expect me to approve of it, can you, Meg? I never thought you were that sort of girl.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising indignantly.</i> I’m not. You mustn’t pretend to think that <em>I’m</em> a clergyman’s daughter, Bobby.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I wish you wouldn’t chaff about that. Don’t forget the row you got into for letting out that you admired Juggins <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">she turns her back on him quickly</i>⁠—a footman! And what about the Frenchman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Facing him again.</i> I know nothing about the Frenchman except that he’s a very nice fellow and can swing his leg round like the hand of a clock and knock a policeman down with it. He was in Wormwood Scrubbs with you. I was in Holloway.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>It’s all very well to make light of it, Meg; but this is a bit thick, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Do you feel you couldn’t marry a woman whos been in prison?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hastily.</i> No. I never said that. It might even give a woman a greater claim on a man. Any girl, if she were thoughtless and a bit on, perhaps, might get into a scrape. Anyone who really understood her character could see there was no harm in it. But you’re not the larky sort. At least you usen’t to be.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I’m not; and I never will be. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She walks straight up to him.</i> I didn’t do it for a lark, Bob: I did it out of the very depths of my nature. I did it because I’m that sort of person. I did it in one of my religious fits. I’m hardened at eighteen, as they say. So what about the match, now?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Well, I don’t think you can fairly hold me to it, Meg. Of course it would be ridiculous for me to set up to be shocked, or anything of that sort. I can’t afford to throw stones at anybody; and I don’t pretend to. I can understand a lark; I can forgive a slip; as long as it is understood that it is only a lark or a slip. But to go on the loose on principle; to talk about religion in connection with it; to⁠—to⁠—well, Meg, I do find that a bit thick, I must say. I hope you’re not in earnest when you talk that way.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Bobby: you’re no good. No good to me, anyhow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Huffed.</i> I’m sorry, Miss Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Goodbye, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She turns on her heel and goes to the other end of the table.</i> I suppose you won’t introduce me to the clergyman’s daughter.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I don’t think she’d like it. There are limits, after all. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits down at the table, as if to to resume work at his books: a hint to her to go.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">On her way to the door.</i> Ring the bell, Bobby; and tell Juggins to show me out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reddening.</i> I’m not a cad, Meg.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to the table.</i> Then do something nice to prevent us feeling mean about this afterwards. You’d better kiss me. You needn’t ever do it again.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>If I’m no good, I don’t see what fun it would be for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh, it’d be no fun. If I wanted what you call fun, I should ask the Frenchman to kiss me⁠—or Juggins.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising and retreating to the hearth.</i> Oh, don’t be disgusting, Meg. Don’t be low.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Determinedly, preparing to use force.</i> Now, I’ll make you kiss me, just to punish you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She seizes his wrist; pulls him off his balance; and gets her arm round his neck.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>No. Stop. Leave go, will you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> appears at the door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Miss Delaney, Sir. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</b> comes in. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> goes out. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b> hastily releases <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>, and goes to the other side of the room.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Through the door, to the departing <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i> Well, you are a Juggins to show me up when theres company. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>.</i>  It’s all right, dear: all right, old man: I’ll wait in Juggins’s pantry till you’re disengaged.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Don’t you know me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to the middle of the room and looking at her very attentively.</i> Why, it’s never <abbr>No.</abbr> 406!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Yes it is.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Well, I should never have known you out of the uniform. How did you get out? You were doing a month, weren’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>My bloke paid the fine the day he got out himself.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>A real gentleman! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pointing to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>, who is staring open-mouthed.</i> Look at him. He can’t take it in.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I suppose you made her acquaintance in prison, Meg. But when it comes to talking about blokes and all that⁠—well!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh, I’ve learnt the language; and I like it. It’s another barrier broken down.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>It’s not so much the language, Meg. But I think <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">he looks at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</b> and stops.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suddenly dangerous.</i> What do you think, Bobby?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>He thinks you oughtn’t to be so free with me, dearie. It does him credit: he always was a gentleman, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Does him credit! To insult you like that! Bobby: say that that wasn’t what you meant.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I didn’t say it was.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Well, deny that it was.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>No. I wouldn’t have said it in front of Dora; but I do think it’s not quite the same thing my knowing her and you knowing her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Of course it isn’t, old man. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b>.</i>  I’ll just trot off and come back in half an hour. You two can make it up together. I’m really not fit company for you, dearie: I couldn’t live up to you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She turns to go.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Stop. Do you believe he could live up to me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Well, I’ll never say anything to stand between a girl and a respectable marriage, or to stop a decent lad from settling himself. I have a conscience; though I mayn’t be as particular as some.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You seem to me to be a very decent sort; and Bobby’s behaving like a skunk.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Much ruffled.</i> Nice language that!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Well, dearie, men have to do some awfully mean things to keep up their respectability. But you can’t blame them for that, can you? I’ve met Bobby walking with his mother; and of course he cut me dead. I won’t pretend I liked it; but what could he do, poor dear?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>And now he wants me to cut you dead to keep him in countenance. Well, I shan’t: not if my whole family were there. But I’ll cut him dead if he doesn’t treat you properly. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>, with a threatening move in his direction.</i> I’ll educate you, you young beast.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Furious, meeting her halfway.</i> Who are you calling a young beast?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>You.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Peacemaking.</i> Now, dearies!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>If you don’t take care, you’ll get your fat head jolly well clouted.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>If you don’t take care, the policeman’s tooth will only be the beginning of a collection.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Now, loveys, be good.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>, lost to all sense of adult dignity, puts out his tongue at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b>, equally furious, catches his protended countenance a box on the cheek. He hurls himself her. They wrestle.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Cat! I’ll teach you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Pig! Beast! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She forces him backwards on the table.</i> Now where are you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Calling.</i> Juggins, Juggins. They’ll murder one another.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing open the door, and announcing.</i> Monsieur Duvallet.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b> enters. Sudden cessation of hostilities, and dead silence. The combatants separate by the whole width of the room. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> withdraws.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>I fear I derange you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Not at all. Bobby: you really are a beast: Monsieur Duvallet will think I’m always fighting.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Practising jujitsu or the new Iceland wrestling. Admirable, Miss Knox. The athletic young Englishwoman is an example to all Europe. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indicating <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>.</i>  Your instructor, no doubt. Monsieur⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">he bows.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bowing awkwardly.</i> How d’y’ do?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>.</i> I’m so sorry, Bobby: I asked Monsieur Duvallet to call for me here; and I forgot to tell you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Introducing</i> Monsieur Duvallet: Miss Four hundred and seven. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bobby Gilbey. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b> bows.</i> I really don’t know how to explain our relationships. Bobby and I are like brother and sister.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Perfectly. I noticed it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Bobby and Miss⁠—Miss⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Delaney, dear. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b>, bewitchingly.</i> Darling Dora, to real friends.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Bobby and Dora are⁠—are⁠—well, not brother and sister.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With redoubled comprehension.</i> Perfectly.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Bobby has spent the last fortnight in prison. You don’t mind, do you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>No, naturally. <em>I</em> have spent the last fortnight in prison.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The conversation drops. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b> renews it with an effort.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Dora has spent the last fortnight in prison.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Quite so. I felicitate Mademoiselle on her enlargement.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td><i>Trop merci</i>, as they say in Boulogne. No call to be stiff with one another, have we?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> comes in.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Beg pardon, sir. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey are coming up the street.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Let me absquatulate <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">making for the door.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>If you wish to leave without being seen, you had better step into my pantry and leave afterwards.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Right oh! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She bursts into song.</i> Hide me in the meat safe till the cop goes by. Hum the dear old music as his step draws nigh. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes out on tiptoe.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I won’t stay here if she has to hide. I’ll keep her company in the pantry. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She follows <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Lets all go. We can’t have any fun with the Mar here. I say, Juggins: you can give us tea in the pantry, can’t you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Certainly, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Right. Say nothing to my mother. You don’t mind, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Doovalley, do you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>I shall be charmed.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Right you are. Come along. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At the door.</i> Oh, by the way, Juggins, fetch down that concertina from my room, will you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, sir. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b> goes out. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b> follows him to the door.</i> You understand, sir, that Miss Knox is a lady absolutely comme il faut?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Perfectly. But the other?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>The other, sir, may be both charitably and accurately described in your native idiom as a daughter of joy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>It is what I thought. These English domestic interiors are very interesting. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out, followed by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Presently <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b> come in. They take their accustomed places: he on the hearthrug, she at the colder end of the table.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Did you smell scent in the hall, Rob?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>No, I didn’t. And I don’t want to smell it. Don’t you go looking for trouble, Maria.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Snuffing up the perfumed atmosphere.</i> She’s been here. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</b> rings the bell.</i> What are you ringing for? Are you going to ask?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>No, I’m not going to ask. Juggins said this morning he wanted to speak to me. If he likes to tell me, let him; but I’m not going to ask; and don’t you either. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> appears at the door.</i> You said you wanted to say something to me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>When it would be convenient to you, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, what is it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, Juggins, we’re expecting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox to tea.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>He knows that. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits down. Then, to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i>  What is it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advancing to the middle of the table.</i> Would it inconvenience you, sir, if I was to give you a month’s notice?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taken aback.</i> What! Why? Ain’t you satisfied?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Perfectly, sir. It is not that I want to better myself, I assure you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, what do you want to leave for, then? Do you want to worse yourself?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>No, sir. I’ve been well treated in your most comfortable establishment; and I should be greatly distressed if you or <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey were to interpret my notice as an expression of dissatisfaction.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Paternally.</i> Now you listen to me, Juggins. I’m an older man than you. Don’t you throw out dirty water till you get in fresh. Don’t get too big for your boots. You’re like all servants nowadays: you think you’ve only to hold up your finger to get the pick of half a dozen jobs. But you won’t be treated everywhere as you’re treated here. In bed every night before eleven; hardly a ring at the door except on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey’s day once a month; and no other manservant to interfere with you. It may be a bit quiet perhaps; but you’re past the age of adventure. Take my advice: think over it. You suit me; and I’m prepared to make it suit you if you’re dissatisfied⁠—in reason, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I realize my advantages, sir; but I’ve private reasons⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Cutting him short angrily and retiring to the hearthrug in dudgeon.</i> Oh, I know. Very well: go. The sooner the better.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, not until we’re suited. He must stay his month.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sarcastic.</i> Do you want to lose him his character, Maria? Do you think I don’t see what it is? We’re prison folk now. We’ve been in the police court. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i>  Well, I suppose you know your own business best. I take your notice: you can go when your month is up, or sooner, if you like.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Believe me, sir⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>That’s enough: I don’t want any excuses. I don’t blame you. You can go downstairs now, if you’ve nothing else to trouble me about.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I really can’t leave it at that, sir. I assure you I’ve no objection to young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey’s going to prison. You may do six months yourself, sir, and welcome, without a word of remonstrance from me. I’m leaving solely because my brother, who has suffered a bereavement, and feels lonely, begs me to spend a few months with him until he gets over it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>And is he to keep you all that time? or are you to spend your savings in comforting him? Have some sense, man: how can you afford such things?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>My brother can afford to keep me, sir. The truth is, he objects to my being in service.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Is that any reason why you should be dependent on him? Don’t do it, Juggins: pay your own way like an honest lad; and don’t eat your brother’s bread while you’re able to earn your own.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>There is sound sense in that, sir. But unfortunately it is a tradition in my family that the younger brothers should sponge to a considerable extent on the eldest.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Then the sooner that tradition is broken, the better, my man.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>A Radical sentiment, sir. But an excellent one.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Radical! What do you mean? Don’t you begin to take liberties, Juggins, now that you know we’re loth to part with you. Your brother isn’t a duke, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Unfortunately, he is, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">together</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>What!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Juggins!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Excuse me, sir: the bell. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Overwhelmed.</i> Maria: did you understand him to say his brother was a duke?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Fancy his condescending! Perhaps if you’d offer to raise his wages and treat him as one of the family, he’d stay.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>And have my own servant above me! Not me. What’s the world coming to? Heres Bobby and⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Entering and announcing.</i> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knoxes</b> come in. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> takes two chairs from the wall and places them at the table, between the host and hostess. Then he withdraws.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</b>.</i> How are you, dear?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Nicely, thank you. Good evening, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They shake hands; and she takes the chair nearest <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Knox</b> takes the other chair.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting down.</i> I was just saying, Knox, What is the world coming to?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Appealing to his wife.</i> What was I saying myself only this morning?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>This is a strange time. I was never one to talk about the end of the world; but look at the things that have happened!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Earthquakes!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>San Francisco!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Jamaica!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Martinique!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Messina!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>The plague in China!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>The floods in France!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>My Bobby in Wormwood Scrubbs!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Margaret in Holloway!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>And now my footman tells me his brother’s a duke!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>No!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>What’s that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Just before he let you in. A duke! Here has everything been respectable from the beginning of the world, as you may say, to the present day; and all of a sudden everything is turned upside down.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>It’s like in the book of Revelations. But I do say that unless people have happiness within themselves, all the earthquakes, all the floods, and all the prisons in the world can’t make them really happy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>It isn’t alone the curious things that are happening, but the unnatural way people are taking them. Why, theres Margaret been in prison, and she hasn’t time to go to all the invitations she’s had from people that never asked her before.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>I never knew we could live without being respectable.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, Rob, what a thing to say! Who says we’re not respectable?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, it’s not what I call respectable to have your children in and out of gaol.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Oh come, Gilbey! we’re not tramps because we’ve had, as it were, an accident.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>It’s no use, Knox: look it in the face. Did I ever tell you my father drank?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>No. But I knew it. Simmons told me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Yes: he never could keep his mouth quiet: he told me your aunt was a kleptomaniac.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>It wasn’t true, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. She used to pick up handkerchiefs if she saw them lying about; but you might trust her with untold silver.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>My Uncle Phil was a teetotaller. My father used to say to me: Rob, he says, don’t you ever have a weakness. If you find one getting a hold on you, make a merit of it, he says. Your Uncle Phil doesn’t like spirits; and he makes a merit of it, and is chairman of the Blue Ribbon Committee. I do like spirits; and I make a merit of it, and I’m the King Cockatoo of the Convivial Cockatoos. Never put yourself in the wrong, he says. I used to boast about what a good boy Bobby was. Now I swank about what a dog he is; and it pleases people just as well. What a world it is!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>It turned my blood cold at first to hear Margaret telling people about Holloway; but it goes down better than her singing used to.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>I never thought she sang right after all those lessons we paid for.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Lord, Knox, it was lucky you and me got let in together. I tell you straight, if it hadn’t been for Bobby’s disgrace, I’d have broke up the firm.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>I shouldn’t have blamed you: I’d have done the same only for Margaret. Too much straightlacedness narrows a man’s mind. Talking of that, what about those hygienic corset advertisements that Vines &amp; Jackson want us to put in the window? I told Vines they weren’t decent and we couldn’t show them in our shop. I was pretty high with him. But what am I to say to him now if he comes and throws this business in our teeth?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, put 'em in. We may as well go it a bit now.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>You’ve been going it quite far enough, Rob. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</b>.</i>  He won’t get up in the mornings now: he that was always out of bed at seven to the tick!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>You hear that, Jo? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>.</i>  he’s taken to whisky and soda. A pint a week! And the beer the same as before!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Oh, don’t preach, old girl.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>.</i> That’s a new name he’s got for me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</b>.</i>  I tell you, Jo, this doesn’t sit well on you. You may call it preaching if you like; but it’s the truth for all that. I say that if you’ve happiness within yourself, you don’t need to seek it outside, spending money on drink and theaters and bad company, and being miserable after all. You can sit at home and be happy; and you can work and be happy. If you have that in you, the spirit will set you free to do what you want and guide you to do right. But if you haven’t got it, then you’d best be respectable and stick to the ways that are marked out for you; for you’ve nothing else to keep you straight.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Angrily.</i> And is a man never to have a bit of fun? See what’s come of it with your daughter! She was to be content with your happiness that you’re always talking about; and how did the spirit guide her? To a month’s hard for being drunk and assaulting the police. Did <em>I</em> ever assault the police?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>You wouldn’t have the courage. I don’t blame the girl.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, Maria! What are you saying?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>What! And you so pious!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>She went where the spirit guided her. And what harm there was in it she knew nothing about.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, come, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox! Girls are not so innocent as all that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>I don’t say she was ignorant. But I do say that she didn’t know what we know: I mean the way certain temptations get a sudden hold that no goodness nor self-control is any use against. She was saved from that, and had a rough lesson too; and I say it was no earthly protection that did that. But don’t think, you two men, that you’ll be protected if you make what she did an excuse to go and do as you’d like to do if it wasn’t for fear of losing your characters. The spirit won’t guide you, because it isn’t in you; and it never had been: not in either of you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With ironic humility.</i> I’m sure I’m obliged to you for your good opinion, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Well, I will say for you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey, that you’re better than my man here. He’s a bitter hard heathen, is my Jo, God help me! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She begins to cry quietly.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Now, don’t take on like that, Amelia. You know I always give in to you that you were right about religion. But one of us had to think of other things, or we’d have starved, we and the child.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>How do you know you’d have starved? All the other things might have been added unto you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Come, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox, don’t tell me Knox is a sinner. I know better. I’m sure you’d be the first to be sorry if anything was to happen to him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bitterly to his wife.</i> You’ve always had some grudge against me; and nobody but yourself can understand what it is.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>I wanted a man who had that happiness within himself. You made me think you had it; but it was nothing but being in love with me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>And do you blame him for that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>I blame nobody. But let him not think he can walk by his own light. I tell him that if he gives up being respectable he’ll go right down to the bottom of the hill. He has no powers inside himself to keep him steady; so let him cling to the powers outside him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising angrily.</i> Who wants to give up being respectable? All this for a pint of whisky that lasted a week! How long would it have lasted Simmons, I wonder?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gently.</i> Oh, well, say no more, Jo. I won’t plague you about it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits down.</i> You never did understand; and you never will. Hardly anybody understands: even Margaret didn’t till she went to prison. She does now; and I shall have a companion in the house after all these lonely years.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Beginning to cry.</i> I did all I could to make you happy. I never said a harsh word to you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising indignantly.</i> What right have you to treat a man like that? an honest respectable husband? as if he were dirt under your feet?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Let her alone, Gilbey. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</b> sits down, but mutinously.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Well, you gave me all you could, Jo; and if it wasn’t what I wanted, that wasn’t your fault. But I’d rather have you as you were than since you took to whisky and soda.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>I don’t want any whisky and soda. I’ll take the pledge if you like.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>No: you shall have your beer because you like it. The whisky was only brag. And if you and me are to remain friends, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey, you’ll get up tomorrow morning at seven.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Defiantly.</i> Damme if I will! There!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With gentle pity.</i> How do you know, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey, what you’ll do tomorrow morning?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Why shouldn’t I know? Are we children not to be let do what we like, and our own sons and daughters kicking their heels all over the place? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</b>.</i>  I was never one to interfere between man and wife, Knox; but if Maria started ordering me about like that⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Now don’t be naughty, Rob. You know you mustn’t set yourself up against religion?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Whos setting himself up against religion?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>It doesn’t matter whether you set yourself up against it or not, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. If it sets itself up against you, you’ll have to go the appointed way: it’s no use quarrelling about it with me that am as great a sinner as yourself.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Oh, indeed! And who told you I was a sinner?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Now, Rob, you know we are all sinners. What else is religion?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>I say nothing against religion. I suppose were all sinners, in a manner of speaking; but I don’t like to have it thrown at me as if I’d really done anything.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox is speaking for your good, Rob.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, I don’t like to be spoken to for my good. Would anybody like it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Don’t take offence where none is meant, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. Talk about something else. No good ever comes of arguing about such things among the like of us.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>The like of us! Are you throwing it in our teeth that your people were in the wholesale and thought Knox and Gilbey wasn’t good enough for you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>No, Jo: you know I’m not. What better were my people than yours, for all their pride? But I’ve noticed it all my life: we’re ignorant. We don’t really know what’s right and what’s wrong. We’re all right as long as things go on the way they always did. We bring our children up just as we were brought up; and we go to church or chapel just as our parents did; and we say what everybody says; and it goes on all right until something out of the way happens: theres a family quarrel, or one of the children goes wrong, or a father takes to drink, or an aunt goes mad, or one of us finds ourselves doing something we never thought we’d want to do. And then you know what happens: complaints and quarrels and huff and offence and bad language and bad temper and regular bewilderment as if Satan possessed us all. We find out then that with all our respectability and piety, we’ve no real religion and no way of telling right from wrong. We’ve nothing but our habits; and when they’re upset, where are we? Just like Peter in the storm trying to walk on the water and finding he couldn’t.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Piously.</i> Aye! He found out, didn’t he?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reverently.</i> I never denied that you’ve a great intellect, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Oh get along with you, Gilbey, if you begin talking about my intellect. Give us some tea, Maria. I’ve said my say; and I’m sure I beg the company’s pardon for being so long about it, and so disagreeable.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Ring, Rob. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</b> rings.</i> Stop. Juggins will think we’re ringing for him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Appalled.</i> It’s too late. I rang before I thought of it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Step down and apologize, Rob.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Is it him that you said was brother to a⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> comes in with the tea-tray. All rise. He takes the tray to <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>I didn’t mean to ask you to do this, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Juggins. I wasn’t thinking when I rang.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Trying to take the tray from him.</i> Let me, Juggins.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Please sit down, madam. Allow me to discharge my duties just as usual, sir. I assure you that is the correct thing. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They sit down, ill at ease, whilst he places the tray on the table. He then goes out for the curate.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lowering his voice.</i> Is this all right, Gilbey? Anybody may be the son of a duke, you know. Is he legitimate?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Good lord! I never thought of that.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> returns with the cakes. They regard him with suspicion.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Whispering to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</b>.</i> You ask him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i> Just a word with you, my man. Was your mother married to your father?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I believe so, sir. I can’t say from personal knowledge. It was before my time.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, but look here you know⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">he hesitates</i>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, sir?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>I know whatll clinch it, Gilbey. You leave it to me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b>.</i>  Was your mother the duchess?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, sir. Quite correct, sir, I assure you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>.</i>  That is the milk, madam. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She has mistaken the jugs.</i> This is the water.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They stare at him in pitiable embarrassment.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>What did I tell you? Heres something out of the common happening with a servant; and we none of us know how to behave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>It’s quite simple, madam. I’m a footman, and should be treated as a footman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He proceeds calmly with his duties, handing round cups of tea as <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</b> fills them.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shrieks of laughter from below stairs reach the ears of the company.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>What’s that noise? Is Master Bobby at home? I heard his laugh.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>I’m sure I heard Margaret’s.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Not a bit of it. It was that woman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I can explain, sir. I must ask you to excuse the liberty; but I’m entertaining a small party to tea in my pantry.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>But you’re not entertaining Master Bobby?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, madam.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Who’s with him?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Miss Knox, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Miss Knox! Are you sure? Is there anyone else?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Only a French marine officer, sir, and⁠—er⁠—Miss Delaney. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He places <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey’s</b> tea on the table before him.</i> The lady that called about Master Bobby, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Do you mean to say they’re having a party all to themselves downstairs, and we having a party up here and knowing nothing about it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Yes, sir. I have to do a good deal of entertaining in the pantry for Master Bobby, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, this is a nice state of things!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>What’s the meaning of it? What do they do it for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>To enjoy themselves, sir, I should think.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Enjoy themselves! Did ever anybody hear of such a thing?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Knox’s daughter shown into my pantry!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Margaret mixing with a Frenchman and a footman⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suddenly realizing that the footman is offering him cake.</i> She doesn’t know about⁠—about His Grace, you know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Perhaps she does. Does she, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Juggins?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>The other lady suspects me, madam. They call me Rudolph, or the Long Lost Heir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>It’s a much nicer name than Juggins. I think I’ll call you by it, if you don’t mind.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Not at all, madam.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Roars of merriment from below.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Go and tell them to stop laughing. What right have they to make a noise like that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I asked them not to laugh so loudly, sir. But the French gentleman always sets them off again.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Do you mean to tell me that my daughter laughs at a Frenchman’s jokes?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>We all know what French jokes are.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Believe me: you do not, sir. The noise this afternoon has all been because the Frenchman said that the cat had whooping cough.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing heartily.</i> Well, I never!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Don’t be a fool, Maria. Look here, Knox: we can’t let this go on. People can’t be allowed to behave like this.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Just what I say.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A concertina adds its music to the revelry.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Excited.</i> That’s the squiffer. He’s bought it for her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, of all the scandalous⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Redoubled laughter from below.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>I’ll put a stop to this. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out to the landing and shouts:</i> Margaret! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sudden dead silence.</i> Margaret, I say!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret’s voice</td>
						<td>Yes, father. Shall we all come up? We’re dying to.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Come up and be ashamed of yourselves, behaving like wild Indians.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora’s voice</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Screaming.</i> Oh! oh! oh! Don’t Bobby. Now⁠—oh! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In headlong flight she dashes into and right across the room, breathless, and slightly abashed by the company.</i> I beg your pardon, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey, for coming in like that; but whenever I go upstairs in front of Bobby, he pretends it’s a cat biting my ankles; and I just must scream.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</b> enter rather more shyly, but evidently in high spirits. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b> places himself near his father, on the hearthrug, and presently slips down into the armchair.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>How do you do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She posts herself behind her mother.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b> comes in behaving himself perfectly. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</b> follows.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh⁠—let me introduce. My friend Lieutenant Duvallet. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b> bows and sits down on <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Knox’s</b> left, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> placing a chair for him.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Now, Bobby: introduce me: theres a dear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A little nervous about it; but trying to keep up his spirits.</i> Miss Delaney: <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</b>, as he resumes his seat, acknowledges the introduction suspiciously. <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</b> bows gravely, looking keenly at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</b> and taking her measure without prejudice.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Pleased to meet you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> places the baby rocking-chair for her on <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey’s</b> right, opposite <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</b>.</i> Thank you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She sits and turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</b>.</i>  Bobby’s given me the squiffer. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To the company generally</i> Do you know what they’ve been doing downstairs? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes off into ecstasies of mirth.</i> You’d never guess. They’ve been trying to teach me table manners. The Lieutenant and Rudolph say I’m a regular pig. I’m sure I never knew there was anything wrong with me. But live and learn <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</b></i> eh, old dear?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Old dear is not correct, Miss Delaney. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He retires to the end of the sideboard nearest the door.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Oh get out! I must call a man something. He doesn’t mind: do you, Charlie?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>His name isn’t Charlie.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Excuse me. I call everybody Charlie.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>You mustn’t.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Oh, if I were to mind you, I should have to hold my tongue altogether; and then how sorry you’d be! Lord, how I do run on! Don’t mind me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>What I want to know is, what’s to be the end of this? It’s not for me to interfere between you and your son, Gilbey: he knows his own intentions best, no doubt, and perhaps has told them to you. But I’ve my daughter to look after; and it’s my duty as a parent to have a clear understanding about her. No good is ever done by beating about the bush. I ask Lieutenant⁠—well, I don’t speak French; and I can’t pronounce the name⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Duvallet, father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>I ask <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Doovalley what his intentions are.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Oh father: how can you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>I’m afraid my knowledge of English is not enough to understand. Intentions? How?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>He wants to know will you marry me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>What a thing to say!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Silence, miss.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Well, that’s straight, ain’t it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>But I am married already. I have two daughters.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising, virtuously indignant.</i> You sit there after carrying on with my daughter, and tell me coolly you’re married.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Papa: you really must not tell people that they sit there. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits down again sulkily.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Pardon. Carrying on? What does that mean?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>It means⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Violently.</i> Hold your tongue, you shameless young hussy. Don’t you dare say what it means.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shrugging his shoulders.</i> What does it mean, Rudolph?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>If it’s not proper for her to say, it’s not proper for a man to say, either. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Doovalley: you’re a married man with daughters. Would you let them go about with a stranger, as you are to us, without wanting to know whether he intended to behave honorably?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>Ah, madam, my daughters are French girls. That is very different. It would not be correct for a French girl to go about alone and speak to men as English and American girls do. That is why I so immensely admire the English people. You are so free⁠—so unprejudiced⁠—your women are so brave and frank⁠—their minds are so⁠—how do you say?⁠—wholesome. I intend to have my daughters educated in England. Nowhere else in the world but in England could I have met at a Variety Theater a charming young lady of perfect respectability, and enjoyed a dance with her at a public dancing saloon. And where else are women trained to box and knock out the teeth of policemen as a protest against injustice and violence? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising, with immense elan.</i> Your daughter, madam, is superb. Your country is a model to the rest of Europe. If you were a Frenchman, stifled with prudery, hypocrisy and the tyranny of the family and the home, you would understand how an enlightened Frenchman admires and envies your freedom, your broadmindedness, and the fact that home life can hardly be said to exist in England. You have made an end of the despotism of the parent; the family council is unknown to you; everywhere in these islands one can enjoy the exhilarating, the soul-liberating spectacle of men quarrelling with their brothers, defying their fathers, refusing to speak to their mothers. In France we are not men: we are only sons⁠—grown-up children. Here one is a human being⁠—an end in himself. Oh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox, if only your military genius were equal to your moral genius⁠—if that conquest of Europe by France which inaugurated the new age after the Revolution had only been an English conquest, how much more enlightened the world would have been now! We, alas, can only fight. France is unconquerable. We impose our narrow ideas, our prejudices, our obsolete institutions, our insufferable pedantry on the world by brute force⁠—by that stupid quality of military heroism which shows how little we have evolved from the savage: nay, from the beast. We can charge like bulls; we can spring on our foes like gamecocks; when we are overpowered by reason, we can die fighting like rats. And we are foolish enough to be proud of it! Why should we be? Does the bull progress? Can you civilize the gamecock? Is there any future for the rat? We can’t even fight intelligently: when we lose battles, it is because we have not sense enough to know when we are beaten. At Waterloo, had we known when we were beaten, we should have retreated; tried another plan; and won the battle. But no: we were too pigheaded to admit that there is anything impossible to a Frenchman: we were quite satisfied when our Marshals had six horses shot under them, and our stupid old grognards died fighting rather than surrender like reasonable beings. Think of your great Wellington: think of his inspiring words, when the lady asked him whether British soldiers ever ran away. “All soldiers run away, madam,” he said; “but if there are supports for them to fall back on it does not matter.” Think of your illustrious Nelson, always beaten on land, always victorious at sea, where his men could not run away. You are not dazzled and misled by false ideals of patriotic enthusiasm: your honest and sensible statesmen demand for England a two-power standard, even a three-power standard, frankly admitting that it is wise to fight three to one: whilst we, fools and braggarts as we are, declare that every Frenchman is a host in himself, and that when one Frenchman attacks three Englishmen he is guilty of an act of cowardice comparable to that of the man who strikes a woman. It is folly: it is nonsense: a Frenchman is not really stronger than a German, than an Italian, even than an Englishman. Sir: if all Frenchwomen were like your daughter⁠—if all Frenchmen had the good sense, the power of seeing things as they really are, the calm judgment, the open mind, the philosophic grasp, the foresight and true courage, which are so natural to you as an Englishman that you are hardly conscious of possessing them, France would become the greatest nation in the world.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Three cheers for old England! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She shakes hands with him warmly.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Hurra-a-ay! And so say all of us.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</b>, having responded to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret’s</b> handshake with enthusiasm, kisses <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</b> on both cheeks, and sinks into his chair, wiping his perspiring brow.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, this sort of talk is above me. Can you make anything out of it, Knox?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>The long and short of it seems to be that he can’t lawfully marry my daughter, as he ought after going to prison with her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>I’m ready to marry Bobby, if that will be any satisfaction.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>No you don’t. Not if I know it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>He ought to, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well, if that’s your religion, Amelia Knox, I want no more of it. Would you invite them to your house if he married her?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>He ought to marry her whether or no.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>I feel I ought to, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Hold your tongue. Mind your own business.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Wildly.</i> If I’m not let marry her, I’ll do something downright disgraceful. I’ll enlist as a soldier.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>That is not a disgrace, sir.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>Not for you, perhaps. But you’re only a footman. I’m a gentleman.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Don’t dare to speak disrespectfully to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rudolph, Bobby. For shame!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming forward to the middle of the table.</i> It is not gentlemanly to regard the service of your country as disgraceful. It is gentlemanly to marry the lady you make love to.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aghast.</i> My boy is to marry this woman and be a social outcast!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Your boy and Miss Delaney will be inexorably condemned by respectable society to spend the rest of their days in precisely the sort of company they seem to like best and be most at home in.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>And my daughter? Whos to marry my daughter?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>Your daughter, sir, will probably marry whoever she makes up her mind to marry. She is a lady of very determined character.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Yes: if he’d have her with her character gone. But who would? You’re the brother of a duke. Would⁠—</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</td>
						<td>What’s that?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Juggins a duke?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Comment!</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>What did I tell you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Yes: the brother of a duke: that’s what he is. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Juggins.</i> Well, would you marry her?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I was about to propose that solution of your problem, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Knox.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>Well I never!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>D’ye mean it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Marry Margaret!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Continuing.</i> As an idle younger son, unable to support myself, or even to remain in the Guards in competition with the grandsons of American millionaires, I could not have aspired to Miss Knox’s hand. But as a sober, honest, and industrious domestic servant, who has, I trust, given satisfaction to his employer <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">he bows to <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey</b></i> I feel I am a man with a character. It is for Miss Knox to decide.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>I got into a frightful row once for admiring you, Rudolph.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I should have got into an equally frightful row myself, Miss, had I betrayed my admiration for you. I looked forward to those weekly dinners.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>But why did a gentleman like you stoop to be a footman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>He stooped to conquer.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td>Shut up, Dora: I want to hear.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I will explain; but only <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox will understand. I once insulted a servant⁠—rashly; for he was a sincere Christian. He rebuked me for trifling with a girl of his own class. I told him to remember what he was, and to whom he was speaking. He said God would remember. I discharged him on the spot.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td>Very properly.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>What right had he to mention such a thing to you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey</td>
						<td>What are servants coming to?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Did it come true, what he said?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>It stuck like a poisoned arrow. It rankled for months. Then I gave in. I apprenticed myself to an old butler of ours who kept a hotel. He taught me my present business, and got me a place as footman with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey. If ever I meet that man again I shall be able to look him in the face.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Knox</td>
						<td>Margaret: it’s not on account of the duke: dukes are vanities. But take my advice and take him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Margaret</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slipping her arm through his.</i> I have loved Juggins since the first day I beheld him. I felt instinctively he had been in the Guards. May he walk out with me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gilbey?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Knox</td>
						<td>Don’t be vulgar, girl. Remember your new position. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Juggins.</i> I suppose you’re serious about this, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rudolph?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Juggins</td>
						<td>I propose, with your permission, to begin keeping company this afternoon, if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gilbey can spare me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Gilbey</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a gust of envy, to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bobby</b>.</i> It’ll be long enough before you’ll marry the sister of a duke, you young good-for-nothing.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dora</td>
						<td>Don’t fret, old dear. Rudolph will teach me high-class manners. I call it quite a happy ending: don’t you, lieutenant?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duvallet</td>
						<td>In France it would be impossible. But here⁠—ah! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">kissing his hand</i> la belle Angleterre!</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
